docs: publish jsii@1.x and jsii-rosetta@1.x maintenance announcement (#4067)
aws/jsii: gh-pages/content/compiler-and-rosetta-maintenance.md

# Maintenance Announcement: `jsii` & `jsii-rosetta` 1.x

**Announcement Date:** `2023-04-24`

> We have recently released `jsii@5.0.0` and `jsii-rosetta@5.0.0`, built on the TypeScript `5.0.x` compiler, allowing
> package maintainers to migrate to a more modern TypeScript language version than 3.9 (which the `1.x` release line is
> built on). This change was designed in [RFC-374], and removes the need for developers to pin some of their dependencies
> to releases still compatible with TypeScript 3.9 without necessarily requiring their dependents to do the same at the
> same time. Upgrading your `jsii` and `jsii-rosetta` dependencies to `v5.0.x` is transparent to your users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have recently released `jsii@5.0.0` and `jsii-rosetta@5.0.0`, built on the TypeScript `5.0.x` compiler. Package maintainers can migrate past the 3.9 TypeScript language version (which the `1.x` release line is
built on). This change was designed in [RFC-374]. It removes the need for developers to pin some of their dependencies
to releases still compatible with TypeScript 3.9, without necessarily requiring their dependents to do the same at the
same time. Upgrading your `jsii` and `jsii-rosetta` dependencies to `v5.0.x` is transparent to your users.
```

[RFC-374]: https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/blob/rmuller/jsii-version-unlock/text/0374-jsii-ts-version.md

Starting with the `5.0.x` release of `jsii` and `jsii-rosetta`, we are using a new versioning strategy for these two

> tools. Going forward we will closely follow new TypeScript compiler releases with new `jsii` and `jsii-rosetta` releases
> going forward, enabling the entire jsii developer community to adopt new TypeScript syntax & benefit from bug fixes and
> performance enhancements brought into the TypeScript compiler, while retaining the ability control the timeline of these
> upgrades.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tools. Going forward we will closely follow new TypeScript compiler releases with new `jsii` and `jsii-rosetta` releases, 
enabling the entire jsii developer community to adopt new TypeScript syntax & benefit from bug fixes and
performance enhancements brought into the TypeScript compiler, while retaining the ability control the timeline of these
upgrades.
```

have decided to start the process of retiring the `1.x` release line. In accordance with our maintenance commitment for
the `1.x` release line, the retirement timeline is the following:

* On `2023-04-24`,  `jsii@1.x` and `jsii-rosetta@1.x` will enter the **Maintenance Announcement** stage. During this
  stage, they will continue to be actively maintained, including new features back-ported from the current release
  (`5.0.x` or later), bug fixes, and security updates.
* On `2023-10-31` (six months later), the releases will move into the **Maintenance** stage. During this stage, they
  will continue receiving bug fixes and security updates, but will no longer receive new features.
* On `2024-10-31` (one year later), the releases will finally reach **End-of-Support**, and will no longer receive any
  features, bug fixes, or security udpates.

Future `1.x` releases of `jsii` and `jsii-rosetta` will soon start displaying a warning when used, encouraging customers
to migrate to the newer releases, which we believe will provide a better experience.

## Frequently Asked Questions

> ### How hard is it to migrate from `1.x` to 5.0.x?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How difficult is it to migrate from `1.x` to `5.0.x`?
```

      }
      ```

* The `1.x` release line incorrectly interprets tuple types as synonyms to `object` (resulting in those APIs often being
  unusable from other languages), and the `5.0.x` release starts explicitly rejecting these
    * These APIs need to be replaced. You can use the  `@jsii ignore` doc-tag to explicitly opt these APIs out of the
      multi-language supported API, and provide an alternate API:
      ```ts hl_lines="3-4 8"
      export class Example {
          /**
           * @jsii ignore
           * @deprecated Prefer using `newMethod` instead.
           */
          public method(): [string, number] { /* ... */ }

          public newMethod(): StringAndNumber { /* ... */ }
      }

      export interface StringAndNumber {
          readonly stringValue: string;
          readonly numberValue: number;
      }
      ```

### What happens with other packages of the jsii toolchain (`jsii-pacmak`, `jsii-config`, etc...)?

The new versioning strategy only affects the `jsii` and `jsii-rosetta` packages. All other parts of the jsii toolchain
will continue to be released under the `1.x` release line for the foreseeable future. The compilation artifacts produced

> by `jsii@5.0.0` and newer remain compatible with jsii tools from the `1.x` toolchain, so developers need not coordinate
> upgrades with their dependents and dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by `jsii@5.0.0` and newer remain compatible with jsii tools from the `1.x` toolchain, so developers do not have to coordinate
upgrades with their dependents and dependencies.
```

### If I upgrade my package to `jsii@5.0.0`, are my dependents required to do the same?

You can decide to upgrade your `jsii` compiler as well as `jsii-rosetta` independently from your dependencies and
dependents. Output artifacts are compatible across all tool releases, including the `1.x` line, at least until they
reach *End-of-Support*.

### Can my app have dependencies built by different `jsii` release lines?

> The `jsii` compiler and `jsii-rosetta` versions used to build a library has no material impact on the runtime artifacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `jsii` compiler and `jsii-rosetta` versions used to build a library which has no material impact on the runtime artifacts.
```

Author: I think this changes the meaning of the sentence (which is there to say your choice of compilers doesn't affect your consumers).
